---
layout: post
title:  "2023-9-25 SSF"
date:   2023-9-23 1:53:46 -0500
categories: serverless functions
---
### Serverless function
- Serverless function
	+ function as a service
	+ client define the function?
		* how does client define it? 
			- writes a function and sends it to the server provider? 
- cold start vs. warm start
	+ warm start: 
		* function in memory?
		* function in container (or VM) and container is loaded to the server?
	+ cold start:
		* function not in memory?
		* function not in container, nor is container loaded to the server?
- step functions and drvier functions
	+ defines how to stitch serverless functions 
	+ can we check the invocation of step function or driver functions to know the call graph of serverless functions
- stateful serverless function
	+ why do we need the serverless function to be stateful
		* the serverless functions write to persistent memory
		* need to have a log since the write might fail (node crashes)
		* need a log in case there is any distributed coordination? 
- profile and build call graph
	+ motivation
		- the reason we want to change the code layout for Ocolos is 
			* if the input of a program changes, the code layout of a program is not optimal for the new input
			* input changes frequently
		- for serverless functions, does the call graph change frequently
			* if the call graph is fixed there is no need to move serverless functions around at runtime
		- how to profile the whole system? 


### Profile
- Can Intel LBR profile the execution of programs in containers (VM)
	+ [LBR example](/cont-opt/2022/12/08/perf2bolt.html) 
		* Can Intel LBR profile the non-C/C++ programs?
	+ BOLT
		* currently Ocolos can only change the code layout of C/C++ functions
		* need to check whether BOLT supports non-C/C++ functions
			- I guess it can since it operates functions at MCInst (close to machine code) level
		* BOLT doesn't support continuous optimization
			- we have extended BOLT to support continuous optimization
			- but have some limitation

